// Copyright 2019-2025 The Khronos Group Inc.
//
// SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-4.0

[open,refpage='vkWaitForPresent2KHR',desc='Wait for presentation',type='protos']
--
When the sname:VkSurfaceCapabilitiesPresentWait2KHR surface capability is
present for a given surface, an application can: wait for an image to be
presented to the user by first specifying a pname:presentId for the target
presentation by adding a sname:VkPresentId2KHR structure to the pname:pNext
chain of the slink:VkPresentInfoKHR structure and then waiting for that
presentation to complete by calling:

include::{generated}/api/protos/vkWaitForPresent2KHR.adoc[]

  * pname:device is the device associated with pname:swapchain.
  * pname:swapchain is the non-retired swapchain on which an image was
    queued for presentation.
  * pname:pPresentWait2Info is a pointer to a slink:VkPresentWait2InfoKHR
    structure specifying the parameters of the wait.

fname:vkWaitForPresent2KHR waits for the presentation engine to have begun
presentation of the presentation request associated with the
slink:VkPresentWait2InfoKHR::pname:presentId on pname:swapchain, or for
slink:VkPresentWait2InfoKHR::pname:timeout to have expired.

The wait request will complete when the timeout expires, or after the
corresponding presentation request has either taken effect within the
presentation engine or has been replaced without presentation.

The timing relationship between the presentation of the image to the user
and the wait request completing is implementation-dependent due to
variations in window system implementations.

If the pname:swapchain becomes ename:VK_ERROR_OUT_OF_DATE_KHR either before
or during this call, the call may: either return ename:VK_SUCCESS (if the
image was delivered to the presentation engine and may: have been presented
to the user) or return early with status ename:VK_ERROR_OUT_OF_DATE_KHR (if
the image could not be presented to the user).

As an exception to the normal rules for objects which are externally
synchronized, the pname:swapchain passed to fname:vkWaitForPresent2KHR may:
be simultaneously used by other threads in calls to functions other than
flink:vkDestroySwapchainKHR.
Access to the swapchain data associated with this extension must: be atomic
within the implementation.

.Valid Usage
****
  * [[VUID-vkWaitForPresent2KHR-presentWait2-10814]]
    The <<features-presentWait2, pname:presentWait2>> feature must: be
    enabled
  * [[VUID-vkWaitForPresent2KHR-None-10815]]
    The slink:VkSurfaceCapabilitiesPresentWait2KHR surface capability must:
    be present for the underlying surface
  * [[VUID-vkWaitForPresent2KHR-None-10816]]
    The swapchain must have been created with
    ename:VK_SWAPCHAIN_CREATE_PRESENT_WAIT_2_BIT_KHR bit set in the
    ename:VkSwapchainCreateFlagBitsKHR field
  * [[VUID-vkWaitForPresent2KHR-presentId-10817]]
    The pname:presentId value must: have been associated with a
    flink:vkQueuePresentKHR request on the pname:swapchain which returned a
    non-error value
****

include::{generated}/validity/protos/vkWaitForPresent2KHR.adoc[]
--
